a diving helmet is completely watertight
so the diver doesn't need a mouthpiece
to breathe and can speak to people at
the surface via built-in transceiver
this helmet is the design the US Navy
used from 1916 until 1984 at the factory
they make the helmets head portion
called the bonnet from a copper sheet
about a millimeter and a half thick
that's been spun on a lathe into a dome
they buff it smooth than using a
template mark where to cut openings for
the various components it takes a good
month and a half for the factory to
machine all those components and
assemble the helmet
with a hammer and punch they dimple the
copper at the mark spots this will give
the saw a foothold on the otherwise
slippery surface then they apply cutting
oil to prevent the saw from overheating
as it bores through the metal the first
cut is a six inch wide hole at the front
for the bonnets hinged faceplate they
saw eight openings for the bonnets other
components including three windows next
with tin and lead solder they fuse a
threaded neck ring to the bottom edge
this ring attaches the bonnet to the
helmets breastplate which bolts to the
collar of the divers dry suit then they
solder a base to the faceplate opening
like all the helmets components it's
made of red brass which is more durable
than standard brass due to its higher
copper content next through a template
they drill holes into a banana shaped
brass exhaust tube it enables the divers
exhaled air to exit the helmet they
solder the exhaust to the bonnet
positioning the non perforated end over
a hole near the divers mouth and the
perforated end at the rear this directs
air bubbles behind the diver so as not
to obstruct the view then they solder on
the remaining components including three
window bases
just as one does when installing a
window in a building they apply glazing
to the faceplate and window bases to
seal the 3-inch thick acrylic paint
against Leafs for underwater safety they
screw a brass guard to the base this
prevents the pane from popping out
should too much air pressure build up
inside the helmet now they installed the
transceiver
and feed its wires through a brass elbow
which will ultimately attach to a
communications cable running to the
surface
with the bonnet complete it's time to
shape the helmets breastplate they lay a
copper sheet onto a breast plate shaped
mandrel clamp on a breastplate shaped
form heat the copper with a torch to
make it valuable then with the wooden
mallet soaked in brine to keep it from
splitting pound the copper for about 45
minutes until it assumes the shape then
they chisel out the neck opening
once the copper has cold they
transferred the breast plate to a form
and begin reinforcing the bottom with
the brass strap after clamping the strap
in position they hammer the copper
around and over its outer edge then they
removed the clamps and solder the copper
to the strap once the soldering is done
they grind the surface smooth and drill
twelve holes into the strap for the
custom-made bolts that connect the
helmet to the collar of the divers dry
suit then after flipping the breastplate
upside down they wrap solder around the
bolts drop them in the holes and melt
the solder to lock them in
they polished the metal and solder on
the last breastplate components a
threaded neck ring for connecting the
bonnet and at the front a pair of brass
eyes for lashing the air and
communication hoses off to the side so
they won't get in the divers way
underwater